Author MOBILE Delegator Over-Emissions Post-Mortem (#1698)
helium/docs: devblog/2023-12-13-mobile-delegator-over-emissions-post-mortem.mdx

is 86%. This meant the variable was set to `9.09%` instead of `6.98%`. This led to an extra
`1490312.96508` being emitted to delegators and not to the rewards escrow. This does not mean that
Hotspots/mappers were rewarded any less, but instead meant that the escrow was underfunded – it did
not have enough tokens to fund all claims.

The latter bug was related to the delegator rewards percentage. When mappers were enabled, there
were coordination issues between the oracles and smart contracts. These issues were discovered, and
the team attempted to rectify them by temporarily increasing emissions for an epoch. Unfortunately,
when the team updated the emissions, they accidentally reset the delegator rewards percentage to the
previous value.

## Impact

The smart contracts have been over-emitting by `1,490,312.96508 MOBILE` a day since August
1st, 2023. This amounts to `201,192,250.2858 MOBILE` missing from the escrow.

Additionally, `73,229,486.7032 MOBILE` were not emitted for the addition of mappers due to the
timing and coordination issues.

This leaves a discrepancy of `274,421,737.0063 MOBILE`

## Next Steps

> To repair the issue, the protocol will temporarily increase emissions for the epoch starting
> 2023–12-27. This will cause increased emissions to the escrow, which will fill the underfunding.
> Unfortunately, this will also increase the circulating supply of MOBILE by `274m`. While this is
> substantially less than the unemitted rewards for oracles and service providers and does not affect
> max supply of MOBILE, it is still a deviation from expected total emissions by at most 0.12%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To repair the issue, the protocol will temporarily increase emissions for the next epoch starting
2023–12-27. This will cause increased emissions to the escrow, which will fill the underfunding.
Theoretically, this will also increase the circulating supply of MOBILE by `274M`. In 
practice those MOBILE had not yet been claimed and it is unlikely this emission will affect the
rate at which they will be claimed in the future. 

While this is substantially less than the underemitted rewards for oracles and service providers and
does not affect max supply of MOBILE, it is still a deviation from expected total emissions by at
most 0.12%.
```
